right let me set the context in this
video we have Nick from helas helas is
one of the biggest validators on Solana
today and also one of the biggest RPC
infra companies if you've ever used an
RPC to build an application you've
probably heard of helas or used them in
some form or fashion in this video we'll
understand the technicals that go behind
building something like this core RPC
infrastructure how do you bring up
validators how do you scale up
validators how difficult is it to become
one of the biggest validators on Solana
and also help a bunch of Solana
companies bring up rpcs as always there
is a $1,000 Bounty Linked In the
description the Bounty is to build a
platform on top of helus web hooks the
platform should allow users to sign up
give their postgress database
credentials and what they want to index
on the Solana blockchain it could be
things like the currently available bids
on an nft or the current prices of an
nft or the currently available tokens to
lend or buy the current price of a
specific token on various Texs the user
can come provide their postest
credentials and select one of these
groups and we'll start to fill their
postgress database for them it takes
away the headache of running your own
RPC or even worrying about any webbook
infrastructure you give a postgress
database it gets filled with whatever
data you want your job is to make sure
to build a platform where people can
come and simply provide what they want
and focus on the application you fill
the data for them you index the
blockchain for them and you use Helia s
books to facilitate that the boun is
linked in the description with that
let's get right into it how how did you
guys approach your indexing
infrastructure yeah I mean I guess I can
answer that in two ways I can answer
like how do we kind of do it today for
this indexing infrastructure only um you
just need one RPC uh running uh that's
constantly indexing the chain and maybe
another one for repairs uh but is that
all you need yeah I guess like it really
comes down to what you call you said you
said you have a few uh servers running
but do you have to Auto scale from time
to time and if the answer is yes how do
you do that on bare metal um is there
something that the cloud provides provid
or have you built the Autos scal
infrastructure
yourself I mean as a provider like how
do we scale our systems y it's all just
capacity planing hello hello hello
welcome to the one Des podcast today we
have with us Nick from
helus hel if you are in the Solana
ecosystem it's it's very very likely or
rather it's unlikely that you don't know
about helus helus is one of the largest
RPC providers on Solana and so somewhat
cheekily when your transaction doesn't
land they're the one to get blamed on
Twitter
so so yeah welcome
Nick everyone happy to be
here
awesome
so I so you guys started
out when you started out with he I know
if feel look at some of the the growth
of Solana and growth of helas kind of
has been in lock step for example you
know when we when compression came out
first helus was the first provider to
actually roll up the sleeves and build
all the necessary infrastructure
around you know the Das and actually
taking D to production
and deploying into production and Then
followed by you know all your work with
z compression and even with stake weer Q
so I would kind
of would love to go deeper into how you
guys you know would love to hear about
your journey of scaling with
Solana sure yeah um is there anywhere
you want to start or you kind of want to
just go from the
top from the top would be good I think
yeah the top okay um yeah I mean well
well I guess first things first helas
was
founded because we found it was too hard
to build on salana and on crypto in
general and for it was too hard
for L Engineers or startups and
companies to build user faing
ANS and the first thing that we found
that was kind of ridiculous is that when
you were looking at the read apis for G
like salana um it was really hard to
understand what's happening who's
sending who money is it a f purchase
sale is it a token swap like you really
have is it staking you have no clue and
you don't really know there was not
really many docks or resources at the
time we started off tackling that we
built like a um and I'll go maybe a
little bit more technical than I usually
do because of the nature of this podcast
but we started off actually like
building an adbs with a very kind of
like I wouldn't say microservices but
you're more kind of like traditional
back gy sort of thing where we had this
we're essentially like a middleware we
used our PC providers um we got the data
we transform it store some of the stuff
in databases enrich it with parsers and
stuff and then serve that back to people
we also quickly came up with the idea
that people needed better event-driven
systems so we added in web books so
people can kind of Say Hey I want to
just get all the I don't know all the
token swaps that happen on you know I
don't know radium liquid deols or
something and then you get those events
but like we were using rpcs ourselves
and you know we faced a lot of problems
with it um again going a little more
technical here because what we even had
is we had this whole like this like
internal I don't know I wouldn't call it
a load balancer but basically we had
this wrapped RPC client that would go
and basically SW detect issues with rpcs
and switch between them and we had this
whole like logic of how we kind of like
fail over in different cases to handle
the different issues that we saw across
different uh providers ERS and also our
customers at the same time too are like
hey we have a he subscription we like
that we also have to have an RPC RPC
subscription it's kind of annoying they
just wanted one single subscription so
then we started offering um rpcs we kind
of got into running our own nodes we
started doing that um what that looked
like for us is shifting a lot of stuff
out of the cloud because you have to run
for those unfamiliar you have to run
Salon validators or at least it's best
to run them on bare metal they don't run
as well virtualized um so to move a lot
of architecture away from um away from
the cloud and even then even the cloud
didn't work that well for salana infra I
think even ignoring that fact just
because um the data through puts so high
you get just destroyed by the egress
fees if you're like vending out things
like data streams to to customers um and
anyways that we got into the RPC side
and we started doing that we started
kind of seeing the problems existed
there and we started kind of um you know
productionizing and catching up I
suppose to the exist RPC providers like
how can we basically offer a reliable
RPC at low cost that's really the
problem we were trying to do because
part of the reason we even got into it
is because the prices were quite high
for us to find a reliable RPC in the
first place when we were using it as a
customer so we wanted to kind of give a
lowc cost but you know higher quality um
alternative so we set up doing that and
there's I can talk about that later but
then as we were doing that our whole
mission isn't Mission never was to build
an RPC the RPC is just just like a means
to an end it's something people need the
mission is to actually make it easy to
build in salana and well like when
impression came around we kind of were
like okay well this is this does solve a
interesting use case that people can
benefit from also it included the you
know metaplex authored the authored it
and the original it also covered nfts
and allowed you to instead having do
these like convoluted queries using the
native apis you could just say oh get me
all the nfts at someone else okay this
is this is really logical this makes
sense so we decided to start uh running
that for those reasons and as you
already alluded to like you know it does
take it t takes a lot of work to go from
sort of the initial implementation of
something towards something that just
works all the time 100% in prod without
problems there was you mentioned a lot
of issues kind of productionizing it
debugging it work we worked a lot with
initial doops of compression um you know
namely like helium dialect um a few
others the kind of smoothing everything
out um that was part of the puzzle and
as we kept kind of moving along I guess
on the compression front since you
mentioned that already we kind of
realized well twofold one thing is that
people wanted to use compression but for
more than just the nfts it actually got
to the point where using compression was
so kind of tricky if you want to use
like the base primitive that people
started actually like putting their
account data into like the URI of the
cnft because that was like they could
just use the existing
infrastructure um and there are a few
kind of poor problems I think with the
first ver version of compression and the
the the problem is that it doesn't
support pdas for those unfamiliar with
pdas it's a program derived address and
the nice property that it has is it's
essentially like a deterministic account
address so I would I would make it kind
of I make the uh comparison to if you're
used to working with like dictionaries
or hashmaps where you could say like you
know I have this username so I have my
program which is kind of like I don't
know the school program and I have a a
teacher's name so I want to find their
the class by the teacher's name or
something I can make a PDA that's like
takes my program takes the teacher's
name and then I get to I could find like
the data about this class or certain um
some school school gr but anyways that
behavior is really nice and you can't do
that with normal compression because all
the accounts have dynamically generated
account IDs which means that ahead of
time you can't know what the account ID
will be which completely breaks a lot of
design patterns you do as a
developer the big breakthrough is CK
compression that the uh big brains over
at light protocol figured out um using
some fancy Merkel tree stuff is a way to
have that same behavior but with
compressed accounts um and then as soon
as you saw that like okay this this
solves that problem
and now the only problem that's left to
solve is how do you make a generalized
indexer for this system do you make it
so that people can go in how do you
adjust the ux in a way so that's
relatively easy or understandable for
someone to say hey I want to open up bu
press accounts I want them to do these
these certain
things and then have a very logical API
to work with it so we we really
intentionally designed CK compression in
a way so that it mimicked the salon
experience so that it's less friction to
go from regular compression to or
regular Salon development to the
compressor of CK um and built up that
indexer so yeah that that's one of the I
guess products um we have others that we
are have worked on and are um new ones
that we are also working on today
um yeah I guess we can kind of go really
wherever you want from there quite a lot
to talk about I could talk for I think
one of the the the common denominator of
most of the things that you mentioned is
like having a robust infrastructure to
index events as they come in be it an
event happening on any you know on any
PD on Sal or you know a compressed even
get just getting emitted directly onto
the LED right it all boils them to
having a robust infrastructure to index
events and so can we spend a little bit
of time talking about that how how did
you guys approach your indexing
infrastructure yeah I mean I guess I can
answer that in two ways I can answer
like how do we kind of do it today what
do we like to see today and also kind of
I could also answer it more from how we
got to where we are today and I guess
I'll do the ladder um we started by
making all the same sort of I guess
mistakes that everyone else would do
and through those mistakes we kind of
end up having to go for further and
further sort of down the stack so the
first thing we did we wanted to do some
like basic indexing is like okay well
it's pretty you know logical that if I
and trying to get the history of X I'll
just use the get signatures for account
method for all that data and then and
fill it that way but that's super slow
it's it's not very efficient to work to
do it like that at all you have a lot of
accounts too it doesn't really make
sense you have to start going block by
block for like back fills and that sort
of stuff and then if you're in index
indexing you could do like a polling
strategy is okay but it runs into some
problems of like you could get you could
fall behind and such and um the latency
could be kind of high in some cases and
so we played around with
um doing the Ping strategy and then we
started doing geyser those unfamiliar
geyser is this like plugin mechanism for
Salon validators essentially you adhere
to the spec you get this um
binary you basically put it under valid
validator and say hey here's my plugin
and it loads that plugin and then it the
plugin runs some of your code as part of
the validator and what you do with that
the common pattern is that you use it to
stream events to do some sort of
processing so a very common like Das for
example has a plugin it listens to all
the account changes for nfts and tokens
and then sends those to a stream where
they can get picked up later by the end
deer so we worked with that as well um
and that is very low latency but it's a
huge pain to work with the reason is
because that if you ever want to change
your plugin code well there's now hot
reloading but I guess the part that's
ultimately makes it hard to keep it more
brief is that it's tied to the validor
itself and so you don't really have nice
redundancy and you have a tied to one
RPC node what you you would prefer is to
have kind of some stream that is robust
back by a couple different RPC nodes so
you have this weird trade-off I guess in
the current um situation between doing
polling where you can kind of pull be
pull against RPC which is naturally
redundant or you could have like a
single screen coming from the skyer node
which is inherently riskier because on
rpcs are kind of finicky to run for for
many
reasons um and then so now what we tend
to do is we tend to use this thing
called um erpc
streams and so um the team at at tridon
authored the first uh grpc plugin and
essentially it's this um streaming
mechanism where it's kind of like
websockets but it's a little bit better
for backend code I guess the way I'd
keep it kind of simple you can say hey I
want to get you know all the block
updates uh but the subset of data you
could be kind of specific what you get
you get that screen that comes to you
and then so internally we do that we
have a pool of shared nodes that all run
the grpc plugin then we have some this
sort of like various Health detections
that we use to make sure that if any of
them ever kind of fall behind or have
any sort of like problems we detect that
and we switch over to a different one um
now there still is that problem though
that when one has an issue you switch to
another you could have a gap in your
data we still have to go and repair it
so our current architecture and what I
think most people's AR texure is right
now is a mix of like streaming plus like
some sort of like uh repair system to
repair missing data using historical
stuff and that works but it's also kind
of suboptimal it's like extra complexity
like who's going to want to build that
you know from scratch um at least as an
app developer you probably don't want to
as an info company yeah it's comes with
the territory that we get it but for
anyone else they probably don't want to
do it so that is something that we're
also working on as well
um I won't prob I can't say too much
there but basically we're working on a
product that makes this whole problem a
lot easier and it's all based off our
learnings and pain points and then we're
kind of just building what exactly what
we want and then just selling it to
everyone else so they can use
it got it super interesting uh I have a
few questions here with the first one
being uh do you since for this indexing
infrastructure only um do you just need
one RPC uh running uh that's constantly
indexing the chain and maybe another one
for repairs but is that all you
need yeah I guess like it really comes
down to what you call ID defying need
right it's like how much would NC do
want to have in your system I would I
would never run with one for streaming
and one for rpcs and also we have to
have replic this replicated in a couple
different regions because we anything we
store any sort of indexed data we tend
to do in m regions as well just for
better latency
um I think polling so here's the thing
is
that yeah it's very it's very
system
dependent typically what makes sense for
most applications I would say it makes
sense to have a few nodes for the RPC
calls because you can you also your
applications probably going use rpcs for
other stuff as well and you can just be
redundant against those and then usually
just one for streaming uh when we used
to use like geyser nodes we'd have
probably two of them but the issue with
that is that there's no you basically
just stream from both you have to have
like a d d duplication setup or have
your like indexing set up in a way so
that it's um uh like item poent like
basically when you see the same record a
second time it doesn't take an action or
the action is not detrimental what
you're doing so different ways to do it
I
guess got it and for your standard RPC
provider uh you said you said you have a
few uh servers running but do you have
to Auto scale from time to time and if
the answer is yes how do you do that on
bare metal um is there something that
the cloud provider provides or have you
built the autoscaling infrastructure
yourself well you mean as a provider
like how do we scale our systems yep
it's all just capacity planning we're
closer to a cloud provider than the
other way around so we just
yeah we just plan ahead essentially got
it so if you have bursts there's no way
to Auto scale
um not really we leave a lot of room
available for that we calibrate our
limits and everything ahead of time we
do a lot of like orders of
infrastructure providers um months in
advance and such so and then if there is
any sort of like more aggressive
bursts then we always could do like
pretty emergency measures but you could
always take like resources from you know
they're doing say there's a big burst
you can take resources away from one
area and shift it over so you can
basically reorganize your inventories um
in emergency scenarios to address those
um bursts but I'd say like as you grow
like the bigger and bigger that you
become the less like dramatic the bursts
become because that it's sort of like
a individual actors start becoming more
of a drop in the bucket you have like
the overall load of the system
um gets quite high so as one person
unless you're paying for a you know
custom plan with like very very high
rate limits you're probably not going to
come close to making it
done got it and so in that case you're
saying you over provision from time to
time um does that mean uh you don't like
is there Engineers sitting and bringing
up servers or you have some pipeline to
you know uh scale up whenever you want
to in
advance yeah I mean like once the heart
was the hardware is in and it's like you
know configured and stuff it's that's
just is just available servers so the
scaling process isn't the same as you
might see if you're used to using like
cloud service where it's kind of like oh
we just scale up like we would run with
a lot more capacity than you would in a
cloud but the difference is that we have
such low margins with everything because
we use bare metal it's so much cheaper
than the cloud that like part of the
reason the cloud the cloud gives you
this benefit of being able to scale but
then they have to do what we're doing so
then you pay for that premium right um
and so we have a really good discount
doing it this way um so we're able to
over provision a little bit and it
becomes just a optimization really I
guess that we get the price low for
ourselves and customers and give us
enough room on the automation side we do
have a lot of we do have a in internal
system we've built for automating all
these these servers so if you want to go
say like hey take these 10 switch them
to the salana version um run them with
this config we can go and like roll out
that change
relativly yeah I also like I think it
would be if I'm not wrong like the team
also has background working at AWS right
so I'm curious to hear about you know
your also in your in the conversation
you mentioned that youus is much more
closer to a cloud provider than uh you
know Services Pro service provider
directly so I'm very curious to hear
about that thought process behind you
know hey you know what we know what it
takes and just deciding to go with bat
metal yeah I mean so yeah I was the one
that worked at ABS um the other
technical co-founder Liam he worked at
Amazon he worked on the ads side so he
did a lot more kind of like big data
stuff there um there's a lot of
similarities though
um like I worked at RDS so that's for
those those unaware that's like the
managed relational database Services
it's basically like postres and such as
a service Marb service Etc um a lot of
similarities with that and how it works
and also running
rpcs um you have the similar concept of
having essentially like your you know
kind of like control plane data plane
architecture have this like control
system that's responsible for you know
provisioning stuff scaling up changing
like basically or it's like the
orchestrator then you have um the data
plane which in our case is pretty simple
it's just the actual RPC server and it's
config um data plan's a bit more
involved in the relational database side
because there's there's a lot that goes
into you know tuning and configuring
managing a a database instance but um
regardless of overall kind of
architecture the high level architecture
actually has its
similarities yeah it's awesome I I I
mean it's kind of like a natural fit
right because a lot of what helus does
is to scaling the read layer and making
sure a lot of this data is available as
quickly as possible so it's not a I mean
to anyone looking at it from outside
it's not as surprise that you know there
is so very very specific unfire
advantage in team itself speaking of him
I'm curious to uh you know hear more
about what is your what is the
engineering culture
at helus like I mean if if he go by m
twet he speaks about you will you'll
work you know as hard as you would ever
word that he is there like a lot of L
around load that people see on Twitter
right but it would
be it will be hear from you as you you
know there in the trenches and what what
engineering culture ad he is is like and
how you guys approach uh hiring team Etc
ATS yeah sure
um I think
the culture if I were to kind of distill
it down is really focused on results and
but results in the right area so it's
on it's basically on customer impact
like that's what everything kind of
comes back to that even we talked about
road map and such like all our decisions
on road map like whether do compression
or not it's like will this help out
developers will that make sense or not
and so the like the measuring stick for
whether or not something's good enough
is does it does it help people does it
simple enough all those sort of things
and so when we're talking like workload
for example like there's definitely a
lot of times where you need to push and
your startup and startups are
competitive but also because that the
measuring stick is like customer success
like I say it's the you know is the
product working well enough for
customers that means that there's
problems say there scaling concerns say
all of a sudden you might have a problem
where someone's doing some new query
pattern that's just causing some
problems in this new newest version of
Sal and you can have a really tough week
because that now of a sudden there's
these like incidents that are happening
and the incidents for us they happen a
lot more we try to have them happen
internally a lot earlier before like
customers see it right so you have a lot
of like a alarms and various things you
have a situation where maybe like 15% of
the fleet is you know having some sort
of problem right now customer traffic's
not going to those 15% we know if this
problem keeps getting worse and worse
and worse eventually it will trickle
over to customers so it's in those cases
where then you have to like it's quite
stressful and you have to work really
hard because you know it's at stake you
know that if
you know something continues going wrong
or you don't figure out the the root
cause here then it will trickle and then
it will cause big customer impact and it
will cause problems for the ecosystem um
and I think that adds that adds a lot of
stress I guess um but I think it also
comes with the
territory right like if you're doing
something impactful you're building
something important then there is
inherently a lot of stake too um so yeah
and I guess the other thing I guess I'll
add is tying into that it's very just
just sort of like I don't know I guess
the word would be like like no BS it's
just very like blunt straightforward
communication there's not a lot of
meetings it's just a lot of focused on
just like you're responsible for X
feature needs to get out the door the
next month build it and then you just go
and build it
um yeah that's pretty much it I mean
it's it's not uh it's not super fancy
but it's just basically what works and
nothing
else it's basically people have
ownership and they are expected to get
done they they want yeah the
decision that they make end to end and
if it if it impacts customers in a
positive way it's good if it impacts in
a negative way they take the ownership
and go back and fix
it yeah exactly there's a lot of um
opportunity for ownership a lot of
opportunity to voice your opinions um
and even the culture I kind of I try
to give as much decision- making is
possible to the engineers even if it
comes to process for example like I
won't say I don't know we need to follow
scrum or we need to do caman or we need
to have some weekly planning meeting um
those decisions belong more to the
engineers so if they want to have a
daily meeting for standup then sure I
don't mind if they want to have it as a
as just a thing they put in slack or
something else that also works for me
um it's good to let give them all the O
all the opportunities to pick and make
those decisions and then if they don't
make any decisions or whatever I'm sure
I'll make one for them but they can
always be overridden if the team prefers
something
else awesome the I think what one one
one thing that would also be like good
to go down into is how do you guys
approach hiring uh is it like very is it
the typical F style hiring where you
know you have several rounds of lead
code followed by you know a b Riser
which Amazon you know famously used to
do is it like yeah because of your do
you follow a similar process or is it
some something
different yeah hiring is tough um you
know we've we've learned a bunch
throughout the our process and we sort
of have adjusted the way that we hire
and approach it um over the years um
trying to kind of converge onto the sort
of signals that we
find lend kind of are the best
indicators of whether not they'll
succeed in the
role um and so it's not exactly a Fang
style but it's not exactly something all
all that different um it's pretty
relatively simple what we tend to do is
we first start off by doing a like kind
of like a 30 minute screen and usually
also like an online test that's not
particularly gamey it's more actually
intentionally actually hold is actually
asks for a lot more opinions um it gives
you a signal of who they are based on
just the opinions they hold and the
preferences and how they like view
things there isn't really as many right
answers it's more just that I guess if
you I guess the best way to word it is
that if you don't demonstrate certain
degree of passion or experience or those
sort these certain characteristics will
sort of directly manifest themselves
through this sort of assessment um if
you have those strengths rather than
actually try to quiz those strengths
those things directly because then
people are just going to plug it into
chat GPT and whatnot and then solve that
way um chat GPT is not great for
opinions it's not a person it tends it's
always gives kind of Wishy watchy
answers um so that's kind of the first
thing and then we also kind of screen to
make sure like you know why are they
interested in Sonic why they interested
in crypto what's their background we
kind of look for people who have a mix
of I guess it'd be skills that would
either directly relate or are kind of in
the the sin people we currently doing
and that can have demonstrated the
ability to learn really fast to take a
lot of ownership we really look for
people who have high agency High
ownership um self- select where they're
kind of ready for the sort of pressure
of having that
responsibility um and then we also then
measure just like Mel chops and I guess
we do that via you know system design
and I guess like coding interviews but
it's I have a certain opinion on on leak
code that I think that LE code and a lot
of coding interviews are performed
they're not performed correctly so I
actually don't have a problem with like
aite code style question I think you
should try to make one that's a little
more specific to the real world but it's
but you also can't make it too specific
because then it gives like an unfair
advantage or disadvantage so one just
hasn't seen that particular thing before
generic enough but then relatable enough
to the real world and then it becomes
more of an exercise on how does someone
communicate how do they solve problems
how do they think what edge cases do
they
consider extend to the real world and
you talk about things like you Rel
something like how would you handle um
like learning and monitoring in this
case how were are some failure modes you
could experience and how that translate
to cuss for impact and I actually put on
that hat and think about things that way
um it doesn't really matter if you can
do the it's more than just the kind of I
don't know puzzly leap code stuff right
that's that's like that in itself isn't
enough of a signal because you have
people can just grind those um and then
it's just a slightly different skill set
I'd
say and just curious what are the roles
that you're actively hiding for right
now yeah so the main roles that we're
hiring for right now is really just like
a backend
back in engineering I probably right now
look for about two more people to
do build on the work on the product side
essentially um we do have like an active
role we're looking for as well on the
platform side it's just a little less um
urgent for us right now I suppose so the
platform platform basically being the I
guess you can word it this way the
platform's team so the platform's
customers is the helas engine
so they're building the tools that the
other Engineers use to build their
products Nick so in in the way you're
structuring the interview you mentioned
that whether they would actually be
useful and impactful at their daily job
is like an important filter for you
right one way to figure that out could
be you know there does
their if they were to send a PR say to
and open source rppo is it does it solve
a problem is just is it worthy of
merging so in that V I'm just curious
are there open- Source reports of helas
that you know people could contribute to
that could go a long way and you know
fulfilling the roles you that you are
hiring
for yeah I'd say
um yes and no I'd say most of our core
stuff like
doesn't for now some of the most like
the bigger projects are not um open
source and I think there'll be a day
when they do become open source but
there's like a different conversation
there's there's a lot needs to be done
before then
um but the thing about like just doing
some PRS or some contributions and stuff
that could
be in some roles depending on what the
the the repo is it be really valuable
especially if they do a lot of it
they're really actively actually working
on the project and that's like a great
indicator CLE PRS itself is a little
tougher to say because what I don't it
kind of comes back to like take-home
assignments some people really like
take-home assignments I I personally
don't love them and it's a point of
debate between different people and the
reason I don't like them is because that
um not everyone has the same amount of
time to do them so if you give someone
like a week on something they could
someone could SN like 20 hours and it's
absolutely brutal to then reject them
after they sunk 20 hours but then how do
you compare someone who doesn't have 20
hours I feel like what if they're
working a demanding job themselves is it
fair for them to now have to s a huge
amount of time to this assignment theing
also with the pr is like if you're
working at another startup kind of like
elas you have the time to do a whole
bunch of like open source PRS to our
thing um what if we're working at a like
a competitor or something and maybe you
don't want to be publishing a bunch of
PRS to to your competitor right so those
are also some factors um but I guess
like the way I word it is that all these
indicators kind of form a story so not
there's very few things that by
themselves is a guarantee of a good
candidate but you piece a bun of these
things together then you have a much
better picture so if they did if they
you know have good behavioral um they
they kind of good behavioral indicators
they did fine the coding interview and
they have a bunch of PRS and stuff like
that that's a great you know overall
package
Mak
sense uh do we have more questions Shake
L of questions here yeah I think we we
can talk about helas as validator if
that's something that you want to talk
about okay so one of
the for con has been a huge problem for
Solana right and and stick we qos has
been something that's like some people
you know where some people really hate
it because it changes the mechanism for
where traffic could come from it changes
the landscape a little bit right so from
Helio's perspective I understand that is
actually puts you at A major advantage
because now not you because rtcs are
Commodities now you have a you have a
way to Stand Out by actually tapping
into some of the network effects of
stake that is number one the number two
also so it's like much more directly to
the users it helps you provide them
better quality of service right now if
naturally people blame the RPC if a
transaction doesn't land so it actually
is the it inevitably becomes the rpc's
problem then that means that you have to
solve it so in a way I look at I mean
stay created Q comes across in this
spectrum I would love to hear you talk
about like how you think about this like
purely from a technical solution
standpoint and how it atts to the
customer uh so how it atts to you know
the customer
experience sure
um I'd say
that bway qos
is in its current form kind of a
Band-Aid for
congestion it's just a way
to it's a sort of like a puristic to
help select better quality traffic but
it's not necessarily a guarantee of
better traffic it's like who's to St is
because I have more stake I'm going to
send I'm not going to send junk there
there's no actual direct
correlation or like between that there's
just it's just an indicator right um and
so when you're an RPC then you're
basically just middl Manning so now your
if your customer send a bu of then
you're boarding that over to the
validator so
um it helps provide stability in tough
times and I don't really think it was
the wrong decision to introduce it to
help spond develop but it's no one I
think no one really views it in its
current form as the long-term that's
something that's here to stay um and
even ourselves even that we have kind of
um I suppose you could argue an
advantage by having a large amount of
stake it also causes to some extent like
certain problems
because it's like um when I word it it's
like it becomes a problem of okay how do
you allocate that state across customers
how do you provide and withth and I
think like for us
the mentality to go back to the mission
is to make it easy for developers to
build things and I have found it really
hard to translate the technical
requirements of how Stateway Qs is
imposed on us into something that makes
sense as a product for customers and
that's Pleasant to use um so for that
reason I actually really like it even
though it's yes we have steak and that's
good but it's like it it's hard for us
to build the best product with with it
and yeah for that reason I'd be happy to
see it kind of like go
away awesome so so what do you think
like reply
well what do you think replacers takeway
that Q is or what's the better way to
solve this problem right for example if
a sandwich attacker wants to use
uh you know bad MVB actor wants to use
he RPC nodes to send their traffic
now now you prioritize their traffic by
virtue of them being a hired paying
customer versus
uh versus you know the nature of the
traffic itself right yes we talk about
like good and bad that can be many
different things um so
the we talk about good and bad from the
perspective of stake bqs and what I
meant earlier I was talking about just
the the uh quality of the transaction in
terms of the revenue it'll yield for the
valador so basically is what's the fee
and will it land so for example if I
send a transaction that is like
malformed it's going to go and have to
go through a couple steps and at some
point it's going to fail some some sort
of check like say say you're
transferring um your the fee payer for
the transaction is out of money well
then or the fee pair doesn't even exist
then what's going to happen is that
transaction Will Never Land it it won't
even execute it'll just drop if someone
bombards you with like a million TPS of
that that's just pure like you're that's
taking away resources that can go
towards people are actually trying to do
something so now if you enter that
sphere of like people who are doing
something you then also have the sort of
like sandwich stuff versus like apps
versus Traders and all that sort of
stuff and um the sandwi swiching is a
much different problem which is a whole
rabbit hole we can talk about but the
majority of sandwiching happens via
usually bundles so usually via jeta
which is different than Stak weight qos
because they have a different priority
mechanism you pay with the goo tips
there's different prioritization there
and um yeah it's a I don't want to go
too off topic when the sandwich R it's a
very very lengthy conversation which I'm
totally happy to talk about um but to go
back to State week Qs and I think what
you're talking about in the first place
is what would replace it and um
so first first and foremost I guess it's
the question of like
capacity um and it's a mix of demand and
capacity so if you have a certain amount
of capacity of how many transactions you
could basically process within the
validator I don't mean necessarily put
into a block basically just filter
because a lot of them filter and you're
like oh it's already already landed or
it has a bad you know a bad signature or
whatever
um that capacity and then you have also
the demand of the
network if the demand is higher than
that capacity that's where things like
stateb Qs kind of make sense um in some
form and I think first and foremost what
needs to happen what is currently
happening is just increasing that
capacity in the first place there's a
lot of initiatives that are going to
increase that capacity first there's
just a lot of straight up bug fixes that
are going to the validator there's a lot
of inefficiencies so it has a lot of
constraints in there that are just come
from Pure inefficiencies as you increase
like the capacity then all of a sudden
the need for something to St Q us
becomes less important because people
are no longer fighting and the thing is
as soon as people start feeling
constrained they start spamming and it
creates this like vicious Cascade effect
um next I guess if you then were asked
okay well what if there was constraints
then how would you kind of the whole
problem is like you have an auction
house and it's like who do you let into
the auction house that's kind of the the
way you could describe it
and I'd have to think this a bit more
but I think what would be the nicest way
to do it is to have the Q be based off
of who is sending the who's actually
sending the transactions so some sort of
identifier like the um maybe the fee
payer now all these things are also kind
of gameable but I'd like to not not be
the middleman and the reason why is
because if you keep sending the same
junky transaction it'd be nice for it to
just kind of recognize that this person
keeps sending this junky transaction we
we start kind of basically we just tell
them to back off for a little while
building that actually into the valider
would help a lot um and to kind of go
one step further is this kind of goes in
the direction of if you've heard of
double zero um those that aren't
familiar with double zero the idea of it
is to kind of a lot of this whole
blockchain stuff that happens over the
Internet um public internet and the idea
of double zero is two things first off
it's like it's a kind of basically a
dpin where it's a network of dedicated
bandwidth for blockchain where basically
the performance of that network is
measured via uh hardware and so you
could as some as someone who has extra
bandwidth you could join the double zero
Network help connect together salana and
then you can get reward for that if you
perform well enough now that's the first
step the second step what they're trying
to do and this is where it kind of ties
into stake Qs and this sort of stuff is
that it can basically provide a field
for all the stuff that isn't going to
land which is by far the biggest problem
and what happens right now is you have
multiple leaders right different nodes
around the world and what happens is
that if someone's spamming stuff out
they're sending it to all of these
ones um and so means each individual
node has to be responsible for for load
shedding all of the junk now if you
instead you have the double zero network
do the load that do that kind of load
sheding filtering out that bad stuff and
then only forwarding the good stuff that
means is now that um you end up
basically it becomes a lot it decreases
the load on the actual validator and has
something else that's purpose built for
filtering that out and then that
purpose-built filtering is now spread
across um a whole network which is a lot
harder to overload than that one Val
basically all the all the traffic around
the world is all going to one spot but
if instead you have this whole network
and then each node of that network is
then filtering stuff out then sending
the good stuff to the
validator um that make sense yeah that's
actually so cool in the sense that the
the problem with condition was that you
since you know the who the slot leader
is ahead of time people can just bombard
that one node with all you know whatever
bandwidth that they have now you know
with double z kind of dissipated
throughout the whatever is the actual
bandwidth of the network itself right so
yeah it feels like a very natural fit
and excited for it to play out yeah that
brings us to the end of this podcast
thank you so much for joining us n it
was so uh great to hear about you know
what actually goes behind the scene of
making sure the transaction lands and
all the status available and building on
Solana is it's actually easy thank you
so much for joining right thanks so much
for having me guys absolutely thank you